---
title: Harbor and DefectDojo - Here comes Hardojo
categories:
- Security
- Auditing
- Docker
---
### Hardojo

Hardojo is a small new piece of code that is in the works, and for which you can find the code on
our [Github](https://github.com/coolbet/Hardojo) page.

#### What

A good Information Security practice would include managing and tracking Vulnerabilities as they
come and, especially, as they go. [DefectDojo](https://github.com/DefectDojo/django-DefectDojo) is
an OWASP Flagship Product that allows to `manage your application security program, maintain product and application information, schedule scans, triage vulnerabilities and push findings into defect trackers`.
In order to have a good overview of own vulnerabilities, data from all the different parts of a system
needs to be ingested into Dojo. 

Docker Images are built, created and updated daily. Moreover, every system which runs on
microservices has probably hundreds -if not thousands- of them. This makes tracking changes manually
extremely cost-inefficient, tedious and sometimes straight-up impossible.
Luckily for us, Cloud-Native tools such as [Harbor](https://github.com/goharbor/harbor) can help
with this by bundling together a container vulnerability scanner (such as [Clair](https://github.com/quay/clair)) together
with a very fancy image registry.
Using Harbor it is possible to force a vulnerability scan as soon as an image is pushed, giving us
the possibility to have always the latest status of all the vulnerabilities that exist in our
images. 

#### The Problem

The problem encountered when we tried to put together these two pieces of a puzzle is that in Harbor
every image is completely independent, so it is hard to track which vulnerability gets solved over
time, how vulnerabilities relate to each other and how image inheritace spreads vulnerabilities
around. Moreover, the volume of the images and the frequency of changes makes it impossible to
manually keep track of the vulnerabilities.

In order to properly manage container images vulnerabilities we wanted:

* To have all data in Dojo
* To have always fresh information
* Not to do any manual work in the process

#### Here comes Hardojo

The problem is simple, and so is the solution. Hardojo is nothing more than a Webhook consumer for
Harbor and an API client for Dojo.

Hardojo will wait for Harbor to send a 'scanCompleted' webhook, and once this is received, will
query the scan result for the relevant image back to Harbor. Once the data is collected, will
organize it and push it to Dojo.

By 'organize' it is meant a bundle of actions:

* If the new `image:tag` has never been seen before, it creates a new **Endpoint** in Dojo, otherwise, gets
  the ID for the endpoint that corresponds to that image. This allows to better track the images in
  the registry and to logically group together scans for the same image.
* Create a new **Engagement** for the endpoint-image. An engagement in dojo is one or more tests
  performed in the same context.
* Create a new **Test** within that engagement. A test can be intended as an action which produced a
  set of findings.
* Finally, create a new **Finding** for every vulnerability that was collected and push them all to
  Dojo.

#### Technical Details

Hardojo is written in GO and can be run as a standalone binary. A Dockerfile and a docker-compose
manifest is also available. Running it within Kubernetes should be also trivial. For more
information, check the [README](https://github.com/coolbet/Hardojo) file in the repository.



